[0.69 - 18.45] Interviewee: Okay, Marco, we talked in the first part about that you use a lot of analytics, you've got coding, lots of work goes into form in the markets. Can maths be accurate enough? There's no way of calculating into your figures luck or human error, or is there?
[19.43 - 72.47] Interviewer: No. Math, by definition, will create a model. And a model, that's actually the name of it, is not the truth. So what we are trying to do, we're trying to model a sport, a game, a league, or whatever, to the best of our abilities. But we don't model for the specifics, we model for generality. You know, if you now talk about human, like playing the game, or what you might call luck, you know, this might be specifics of the game, right? You know, maybe the guy woke up with the wrong feet, his wife yelled at him in the night, my model would not be aware. How would my model possibly know that? And so there's levels of models. I've seen models with humidity playing a role, like in baseball. I've seen everything under the sun in a model. Our models are often on a more general basis, because of the necessity of us offering so much product.
[73.05 - 86.39] Interviewee: Okay, now you say that you take colossal bets on some markets. Do you have a model that predicts the volume that you will take on that particular market, so you know if somebody comes in early for a huge bet, that you probably can accommodate that?
[87.27 - 127.55] Interviewer: No, we don't have that. However, to be fair to your question, we adjust our limits quite strongly when time is passing. So the very early limits are a lot lower than the late limits. So we address the uncertainty by adjusting our limits over time. So to give a more concrete example, like a Premier League game might open for 2 ,000 pounds, then go to 5 ,000 pounds on a game day before, on a game day goes to 20 ,000 pounds, an hour before goes to 50 ,000 pounds. So you have a natural transition when it comes closer to kickoff, where uncertainty has lessened. We now know the lineup, we know everybody was fit, we know the weather, we know everything about the game.
[127.55 - 134.27] Interviewee: Okay, so would your feared punters, if you like, take a hit on their stake rather than a hit on the odds?
[134.43 - 178.39] Interviewer: Well, it depends a little bit. So you have what people call the prisoner dilemma, right? Everybody might know the information that somebody's injured, but the question is like, how much do you want to get paid for it? Are you happy playing for 500 quid or do you want to wait for 5 ,000 quid? What happens if somebody else takes the information before then it's worthless? So that's why the professional punters guard their information as much as they would guard their child's, to not give out any information beforehand, because they need to get down size. If you think about professional punters, some might not work alone, they might work in a team, they might have a database guy, an IT guy, that means they actually have cost attached to it. So just placing 2 ,000 quid might not be sufficient for them to make cost. So they need to wait until they can pay 20 ,000 or 30 ,000 quid.
[178.83 - 187.81] Interviewee: Okay, and then another thing that you've said is that the market almost always out -trumps the traders. Now that would probably put a fear of God into the traders. Should be looking over their shoulder?
[188.95 - 242.13] Interviewer: I believe that markets are incredibly strong, absolutely incredibly strong. And if you don't know the information that's moving the market, it's probably not good to fight the market. You know, markets, financial markets, political markets, whatever markets are incredibly strong. So that's what I mean, like as a trader, you're more, you're not the player in the concert, you're more like the guy in front, you know, like coordinating everything. And that's how I see traders. They're there to facilitate action. You know, they just need to understand, okay, where's the music going? Okay, where's the trend? Okay, in the last five minutes, every bet has been on the over. Okay, let me adjust the over a little bit. Oh, now is a push on the under immediately means there was probably under money out there that was just waiting for the line to adjust and try to play with the market a little bit. Understand how does it work? How's the market moving? What's happening?
[242.57 - 252.21] Interviewee: Okay, you mentioned earlier that your traders may have a punting background. Are they encouraged or discouraged to follow in your sharpest punters? Is that allowed?
[252.51 - 272.81] Interviewer: That's forbidden. You know, that would be a high conflict of interest. Like, in general, the way that we treat it is, like, if you're not allowed to punt when you work for us, there might be a few exceptions on big events that might not be your sport. Like, if you're a tennis trader, you want to punt on the World Cup, so be it, right? You know, but in general, it's highly discouraged. Okay, now,
[272.97 - 282.91] Interviewee: I've also heard you say, I'm sorry, I keep quoting you, some of your most successful football traders with a decade's experience couldn't tell you what team is top of the league. Now, how does that work?
[283.21 - 330.95] Interviewer: That is 100 % true. They wouldn't even know a player in the league. They are very, very good at understanding the market dynamics for the league. And they have a lot of respect for the winning punters in the league, the people with the information, the people who do the research, the people who know the inside and out, and how this all factors in. It might be hard to believe when you come from the pure punting world, because it's the opposite, but for us, it's being part of the market that exists and leading that market and understanding, okay, now there's a trend coming this way and I can jump ahead of the trend, or I know what's happening, right? Everybody pushed on Tottenham all day long, but I know there's Manchester City money out there, and I know it's going to come now. And if you start understanding this a little bit, you're starting to actually play the role of a trader to a best degree.
[331.61 - 348.33] Interviewee: Okay, now you've, another phrase that I learned for the first time was super forecasters. Now, you don't stop anybody betting with you, you don't close anybody down. Correct. So, is there not a fear that all these super forecasters are going to come up with the same outcome, and you're going to have a massively lopsided book?
[349.37 - 366.99] Interviewer: No, not really, because what we will do is, after every wager, we will automatically adjust the line. So, meaning that the price that they've gotten has moved, which means the probability has moved, and eventually their forecast, you know, might go from haps to tails, right? That's how it works.
[368.19 - 387.49] Interviewee: Okay, so you've also priced up anything from the next Pope, Game of Thrones, table tennis, politics, and e -sports. Correct. So, how time -consuming is it to accurately price each event? So, is it worth the time you spend pricing up some of these novelty events, or is it all part of the fun?
[387.61 - 427.53] Interviewer: That's fun. No doubt about it. That's fun. We know as little as the general public. No doubt about it. We do a little bit of research. I'm guessing, like, obviously, Game of Thrones, everybody watched it. Everybody had opinions, so we pulled in the office, saw what people did, gave a little bit of wading to it, and just threw it out there. That's not a market we are planning to win. You know, it's a market that we're offering for fun. The Popes, we did a little bit of research, you know, we didn't even have the winning Pope in our lineup. I think we offered 16 Popes or 24 Popes, and it was none of the 16, 24. That shows you how good of a research we've done. When you talk about e -sports, there's a ton of work going into that. I have, like, 30 people just working on e -sports.
[427.87 - 440.43] Interviewee: Yeah, the e -sports have been for quite some time touted as the next big, betting thing. It doesn't appear to have happened in the UK, but, I mean, you're a global firm. So how big is e -sports?
[440.59 - 473.21] Interviewer: It's our fourth biggest sport. So absolutely massive. You know, so, yeah, I mean, it's interesting for me to see that for some regions, for some bookmakers, it hasn't taken on at all. And then I know several other bookmakers where it's taken off completely. And it's hard for me to really say why is that, but what I do think is going to happen, the further and further we go along in time, the more people are going to grow up with e -sports. You know, that's the reality. I mean, there's people now who grew up and are going to become 30, who never knew a world where e -sports doesn't exist. And that's what they like to watch.
[473.73 - 477.73] Interviewee: And do you have professional punters that are making it pay backing on e -sports?
[477.89 - 491.17] Interviewer: Yeah, very few, but they do exist. You know, I think even the syndicates have been slow to adapting, but the syndicates need market size. So if the market ever grows bigger, I'm sure somebody will not say no to free money.
[491.79 - 506.83] Interviewee: Okay, now you're talking about free money. You've covered it really when you say that these markets are for fun, but the Pope, the Game of Thrones, there are people that are going to know the result before everybody else knows the result. So, I mean, what safeguards do you have to ensure that you don't get tucked up there?
[507.01 - 539.67] Interviewer: We have a ton of safeguards around liability. So if we accrue too much liability on a certain outcome, the betting will be taken offline and a trader would have to review it. Basically, yeah, exactly what you say. Somebody would know the answer. I mean, in the Pope, it's a little bit different, but in Game of Thrones, 100%. And that's certainly what happened at the end. I mean, I used to offer a lot of Oscar betting and I got very disenchanted with the Oscars because I knew every single outcome before. And not because I'm so smart, it's because somebody who knew the information betted into us.
[539.67 - 541.67] Interviewee: And do those people get a yellow card?
[542.49 - 550.03] Interviewer: They should, you know, I don't give them a yellow card. Because to me, it's fair game. I mean, they're not doing anything illegal, right? They're just betting information that I don't have into the market.
[550.59 - 555.49] Interviewee: Now, what is the hardest market or sport to beat the punters on?
[558.59 - 586.86] Interviewer: Oh, surprisingly, like the big markets are surprisingly hard, like the Premier League or whatever. It's just because the information density is so high and everybody knows everything about it. It's surprisingly hard. But then again, in the smaller leagues, right, we have zero information, but so does everybody else. I mean, who really knows what's happening entirely in second division, right? We try to almost keep things on a level playing field by adjusting the margins and the limits to harmonize it a little bit over the entire structure.
[586.86 - 605.70] Interviewee: Okay, now you've developed a way of almost finishing up with the perfect odds for an event. When you see competitors that are wildly, you know, are definitely out of sync, do you not feel tempted to make them pay for their mistakes? Yeah, I am,
[605.82 - 620.56] Interviewer: but it's too much work for me to do it. It's not lucrative for us. I would need to hire somebody. I would need to start opening accounts. I would need to do all the paperwork and all setting this up to place a few wages. It's not lucrative for me.
[620.88 - 624.68] Interviewee: Yeah, so you wouldn't be like a predatory company sometimes? Well, the way that we
[624.68 - 644.24] Interviewer: do it is by hopefully somebody taking an arbitrage between us and the bookmaker, right? And basically they will, you know, pocket the profits, which is nice, you know, either, and have to do the work by setting up the accounts. Maybe they get kicked out by the competitor, but at least I don't have to do it myself.
[644.62 - 649.22] Interviewee: Yeah, and so there's no hedging or anything similar to hedging involved in your markets? We
[649.22 - 664.84] Interviewer: used to, but we stopped hedging actively probably a decade ago. Now it's all done through trading. We try to move the markets in a certain way that other people would take the arbitrage or would take the value bet or whatever it is to what people would call hedging.
[665.80 - 670.20] Interviewee: And finally, I imagine it's a very high -pressure business.
[672.00 - 687.38] Interviewer: It's okay. I mean, yeah, it is high -pressure, but on the other hand, it's a fun job. You're dealing with interesting people. You're trying to get a good product out. I quite enjoy it. I've been doing it for a long time. I've got a good team with me. I'm not alone. I keep in the good fight going.
[688.28 - 691.34] Interviewee: Okay. So, Marco Blumier, thank you very much. Thank you very
[691.34 - 692.20] Interviewer: much. I appreciate it. Thank you.
